(172.16.10.1/24) **A** (172.16.20.1/24) <--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------->(172.16.20.2/24) **B** (172.16.30.1/24)

* `A(config)# router ospf 10`: 10 here is called as process id. OSPF will be identified with this process ID in microcontroller of that PC.
* This id may not be same on the neighboring routers.
* **Wild Card Mask:** Opposite of a subnet mask. Make all 0s ones and all 1s zeroes. For example : `0.0.0.255`
* **Command: `A(config-router)# network <network id> <wild card mask> <area> <area id>`**
	* For A,
		* `A(config)# router ospf 10`
		* `A(config-router)# network 172.16.10.0 0.0.0.255 area 0`
		* `A(config-router)# network 172.16.20.0 0.0.0.255 area 0`
	* Similarly for B,
		* `B(config)# router ospf 10`
		* `B(config-router)# network 172.16.20.0 0.0.0.255 area 0`
		* `B(config-router)# network 172.16.30.0 0.0.0.255 area 0`

* If we want to **change areas**, for example, area after 10.1 is area 1 then simply use: `A(config-router)# network 172.16.10.0 0.0.0.255 area 1`

**Passive interface in OSPF:**
* A passive interface in OSPF is a network interface that stops sending or receiving OSPF routing updates while still participating in the OSPF routing process for advertisement.

*Advantage of using Wild Card Mask?* Search!
*What is Host Mask?*

### **Loopback**
Commands:
`A(config)# int lo0`
`A(config-if)# ip address 1.1.1.1 255.255.255.255`
`A(config-if)# no shut`

Other stuff in notebook.

### **Designated Router (DR)**
In OSPF, the **Designated Router (DR)** and **Backup Designated Router (BDR)** optimize communication on broadcast or multi-access networks. The DR is elected to collect and distribute LSAs (Link-State Advertisements) for the network segment, minimizing the amount of routing information exchanged. The BDR stands by to take over if the DR fails, ensuring continuous operation. Routers elect the DR and BDR based on Router IDs and priorities, with the DR managing all LSA exchanges and the BDR ready to assume the DR role if needed. This setup reduces network overhead and maintains stability.

* DR is the highest R.ID among everyone.
* 2nd highest is BDR
Diagram in notebook.
This happens only and only if the type is Ethernet and not others.

### **Election of BDR**

* Elections are only for BDR.
* BDR is elected first , then it looks for DR, if it is not present then BDR gets promoted to DR.
* Then another BDR is elected.
* If any other router with higher priority or higher RID occurs. Then they can't immediately become DR or BDR.
* They will have to wait for 2 turns. That it for DR and BDR to get removed.
* That is preempting is not possible.

