### **Routing Overview**:

Routing is the process of selecting the best path for data packets to travel from one network to another to reach their destination.

- **Directly Connected Networks**: Denoted with a **Capital C**.
- **Static Routes**: Denoted with a **Capital S**.

**Three Ways to Configure Routes**:

1. **Static Routing**
2. **Default Routing**
3. **Dynamic Routing**
    - **Distance Vector** (e.g., RIP, IGRP)
    - **Link-State** (e.g., OSPF, IS-IS)
    - **Hybrid** (e.g., EIGRP, Cisco proprietary)

---
### **Static Routing**:

Static routing involves manually specifying routes in the routing table.

- **Command**: `A(config)# ip route <Destination Network> <Subnet Mask> <Next Hop Address>`
- **Example**: 
	`A(config)# ip route 172.16.30.0 255.255.255.0 172.16.20.2
	`B(config)# ip route 172.16.10.0 255.255.255.0 172.16.20.1`
- **Explanation**:
	- **172.16.30.0**: Destination network.
	- **255.255.255.0**: Subnet mask for the destination network.
	- **172.16.20.2**: Next-hop IP address or the IP address of the next router.
- **Important Command**:
	`A# copy run start` : This saves the running configuration to the startup configuration.
- **Display Routing Table**:
	`A# show ip route`: This command shows the router's IP routing table, listing all known networks and the paths to reach them.
---
### **Default Route**:

A default route is used when no other route is available for a destination network. It is often used for routing traffic to the internet or other external networks.

- **Command**:
	`A(config)# ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 <Next Hop Address>`
- **Example**:
	`A(config)# ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 172.16.20.2`: This tells the router to send all traffic destined for any network not explicitly listed in the routing table to the next-hop IP address.
- **Combining Routes**:
	- **Specific Routes** are considered first.
	- **Default Routes** are used if no specific route matches.
	`A(config)# ip route 172.16.10.0 255.255.255.0 172.16.20.1 Specific Route`
	`A(config)# ip route 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 172.16.40.2           Default Route`
---
#### **Steps** 
`* Router(config)#hostname A (Provide hostname for the router)` 
`- A(config)#enable secret (password) `
`- A(config)#line con 0 / aux 0 / vty 0 4 `
`- A(config)#password (password) `
`- A(config)#login - A(config)#exit` 
`- A(config)#interface (id like g0/0) `
`- A(config)#no shut `
`- A(config)#ip address (ip) (subnet mask) `
`- A(config)#ip route (destination network) (subnet mask) (next-hop-address)`

---
### **Exit Interface**:

The **exit interface** is the network interface on a router used to forward packets towards their destination. It specifies the physical or virtual interface used for outbound traffic.

- **Routing Table Example**:
	`10.1.1.0/24 [90/30720] via 192.168.1.1, 00:00:10, FastEthernet0/1`
	- - **10.1.1.0/24**: Destination network.
	- **via 192.168.1.1**: Next-hop IP address.
	- **FastEthernet0/1**: Exit interface.
	- In this example, packets destined for **10.1.1.0/24** are forwarded out of the **FastEthernet0/1** interface to reach **192.168.1.1**.
- **Drawback:**
	- If the next network has multiple exit points then exit interface won't work. 
	- This is called as multi-access network scenario.
	- The best solution for this is to use next hop address.


	



