### **Auto Summarization**
* Auto summarization in EIGRP (Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol) is a feature that automatically summarizes routes at classful network boundaries. When enabled, it reduces routing table size by summarizing multiple subnets into a single classful network address.
* However, it may lead to suboptimal routing if networks are discontinued.
* Ex- For example, consider two subnets, **192.168.1.0/24** and **192.168.2.0/24**, separated by different routers. If auto-summary is enabled, both subnets might be summarized as **192.168.0.0/16** when advertised, causing routers to forward packets incorrectly since they don't have the specific subnet information. The routers might think they are connected to the same network, leading to wrong routing decisions. This can lead to routing loops or traffic being sent to the wrong destination.
* To enable it use: `auto-summary`. This command is by default enabled. You can disable it using `no auto-summary`

---
### **Bandwidth Management**
* In **EIGRP (Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol)**, bandwidth management is crucial to ensure that routing updates do not consume excessive network resources. 
* EIGRP uses a feature called **"Bandwidth Percent"**, which allows the router to limit the percentage of available bandwidth that EIGRP can use for routing updates on an interface. 
* By default, EIGRP can use up to 50% of the interface bandwidth.

##### Drawbacks:
1. **Over-utilization**: On low-bandwidth links, 50% may still be too much, leading to congestion for other traffic.
2. **Under-utilization**: On high-bandwidth links, it may underutilize available capacity, slowing down routing convergence.
3. **Inaccurate Bandwidth Setting**: If the interface bandwidth is misconfigured, EIGRP could use too much or too little bandwidth, impacting performance.
---
**Algorithm** Used by EIGRP is ***DUAL (Diffusing Update Algorithm)***
EIGRP routes are denoted with capital D, where D stands for DUAL.

---
Commands:
`router eigrp`
`network <> 
`show ip eigrp topology`
`show ip eigrp neighbor`
`show ip route`